The Joe Rogan experience. I knew about you before this happened,
but then I really kind of got on board with you when someone was trying to get
you fired from Boston university. And I remember Boston college, Boston college,
sorry. And I tweeted it and I was like, right. Like what, what is this?
This is craziness.
So it's a woman named Amy Siskin who Don don't know,
other than that incident.
Where, and you had a disagreement about something it wasn't. Yeah.
And it wasn't toxic. It wasn't hostile. I didn't think what you said.
Didn't I didn't explain what you said and what she,
what she had said that you disagree with. So.
We may be able to even find the tweet, but she tweeted something,
the gist being, um,
<affirmative> that she would not be supporting any candidate in 20,
20 who's white or male. I think that that was the gist of it.
And I responded I'm going from memory here.
The gist was something like isn't that the definition of racism,
you're sort of preemptively excluding someone from consideration on the basis of
race. And in that case, gender, if, if it was white and male,
there it is right there. Uh,
there it is support will not support white male candidates in the D primary,
unless you slept through midterms. Women were our most successful candidate.
Biggest them vote getters in history, Obama oh eight, Hillary 16,
white male is not where our party is at.
And it is our least safe option in 2020 me. <laugh> right. So I said,
isn't there something not progressive about preemptively,
dismissing a candidate based on their race and gender.
I feel like there's a word to describe that as a progressive,
I won't be jumping on board. Yeah. So.
Yeah. Well you, you basically didn't even say it's racist, right? You,
you said there's a word to describe that. Yeah.
And that's a very polite way of disagreeing with someone. I,
it was polite and she tried to get you fired.
Yeah. She contacted as far as I know, so, okay. I don't,
I'm going by what she said.
She said she contacted Boston college and told them not to allow me to teach
there. That's insane. And Boston college, since I'm just an adjunct,
I'm not on staff when I'm not teaching.
Like during the three months of the semester I'm employed there and the other
nine months, I'm not.
So I think Boston college said he's not currently employed here. And I, I,
I think that that's basically as far as it went,
but I did talk to some other faculty there who were aware of the thing that was
going on.
That's a crazy thing to do. Hmm. Just,
I think so it's a nasty mean thing to do too. Like what,
what someone can't disagree with you. And it's a very good point.
I think she probably got upset because you made a very good point and tweets
started coming her way. And a lot of people,
they read those comments and people get toxic in those comments. Yeah. Random,
strange people that you don't know. And then you're forced to, you know,
look at their opinions and their criticisms and their insults. That.
Incident started me down the path of drastically limiting my social media
use. Good for you. <laugh>. Yeah. Uh, I mean that, that was the beginning.
And then it became, I mean, you know, this way more than I do,
because I think on all platforms you have roughly 10 times the following that I
do, no matter what you do post or whatever, if you look at what the feedback is,
it's extraordinarily toxic and horrible negative stuff that is only a
distraction to what I'm trying to do. And.
Most it probably isn't. But I, I had an Naval on yesterday.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> Naval around camp. Yeah. And, uh,
one of the things that he brought up that's so, so huge.
It's so true is that you can have 10 positive things,
but that one negative will outweigh the 10 positives in your mind. You mean in.
Your mind? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
Especially if you're a person who's self critical or self, uh, objective,
you're analyzing your behavior. Was that good? Was that bad? Right?
And then you read that one bad comment. Are they right? Yeah.
You don't read all the people that say you're great. Oh, brilliant. Loved it.
Yeah. you. Loser. Oh.
Yeah. Loser. Absolutely. I mean this,
when I announced I was gonna be doing your show.
If you look at what the comments were almost all, this is awesome. Great.
Left. W talking to Joe Rogan, go get 'em David.
This is such a great opportunity. Can't wait to watch you face plant. Oh Jesus.
And that's the one where I'm like, man, are they right?
Like <laugh> am I gonna face?
Am I in a faceplant.
So I don't know. I'm just trying to limit the amount that I'm on. Social media.
Don't one thing I am doing though, because I mean,
my show is in part as successful as it is cause of social media. So it, I,
I can't ignore that. Right, right. You don't have to engage.
I don't have to engage. And I also can just say,
I will check our networks in the morning. Then I'll spend the whole day,
I'll do my show. I'll do what I need to do.
And then before I sign off for the evening, I'll check it.
And that's it idea because.
What if you read the worst right before you eat dinner or go to bed? Well, no,
it'll be like 5:00 PM.
<Laugh>.
So you have five hours to have five hours.
To cool off. Yeah. Yeah. And, and it's way better. And weekends I'm almost,
I mean, people are like, David, you're still tweeting on the weekends.
A lot of those are like prescheduled tweets where I'll just sit and schedule
some stuff and I am trying to stay off it. And it's been really great. I mean,
it's been a fantastic.
We looked at our phones yesterday. Uh, we did a sober October podcast with, uh,
my four friends. Yep. We looked at our phones to look at phone usage and I,
I use my phone four hours a day on my phone, four hours a day. I'm like average.
That's a lot. What.
App did you use to measure it? It's something.
On your iPhone. Oh, okay. Yeah. You have a, a Android.
I'm sure they have a similar thing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Four hours of screen time.
I'm like, Ooh, that's not good. They're adding it.
To the, a computer too. So it's gonna combine,
you'll know how much you're looking at all screens.
Soon. Yeah. But what if you're writing? Well, gonna count that count. Yeah,
sure. But work staring at the screen. That's how I work. Hey, that's.
What argument you guys are making for the phone yesterday.
That's Berts argument, but yeah. Well Bert's,
argument's not good cause he doesn't even write. That's ridiculous.
One thing I did that actually is useful is I used to have my social apps on the
home screen and Cal Newport and some others have said, you got,
you gotta get rid of those. He actually advocates getting rid of the,
the apps all together so that you have to go on a computer and choose to go to
facebook.com or Twitter. Mm-hmm <affirmative> I, I haven't gotten there yet,
but even just removing them from the home screen makes me significantly less
likely to even pull them up. It's it's two clicks. Yeah.
To swipe up and scroll over to the app. Right.
But even just getting 'em off the home screen keeps me off of them
significantly. That's.
Smart. That makes sense. Yeah.
I need a certain amount of access to those things with my business. Right.
So scheduling shows and things along those lines, but yeah.
It's not good for you. I mean, I think one.
Of the biggest realizations is that people don't really miss
you that much. They don't hear from you for a couple days. Yeah.
Like that's one of the things where the idea of needing constant
comes from sort of like a slightly narcissistic point of view where like,
people are going to notice if I don't tweet for,
from Thursday night until Monday morning or do anything like that. Right, right,
right. Right. And they, they really don't. They don't know.
They don't don't there there's a lot of other people to pay attention. Yes.
There are, there are a few people that tweet on you that,
that are kind of crazy and that want to hear from you all day long. Yeah.
But they'll get used to it. They'll get used to you. They will vanishing.
And I don't know. I mean, Cal Newport has, have you had him on no, I haven't.
He wrote deep work.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and then more recently he wrote digital minimalism and he
goes into detail about just the effect of, uh.
He's gonna write it down my phone, but it feels SAC <laugh> to put that as a,
take.
It out right now. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
he goes into detail about this stuff and just about, you know, the,
we need more uninterrupted periods of concentration for what, what.
Is, uh, the book called again? Deep work.
Deep work, and then digital minimalism. And they're both.
I interviewed him recently. Really just solid, very solid stuff. Awesome.
Yeah. Um, what were we just about to get into? Oh, so we were into this,
this woman, Amy Siskin.
Did you reach out to her when she did that and privately? Yeah, no, no.
Did you reach out publicly? Uh,
well you did publicly declare that she tried to get you fired, right? Yes I did.
Did she respond?
I don't know. Cause she blocked me <laugh>.
Oh God it. Yeah. She blocked you over that. <affirmative> yeah.
Jesus. That is so sensitive.
What, what is Twitter for, right? Is it just to fall in line?
Is it just to agree with everything someone says with no questioning whatsoever?
What's extra interesting about it is she blocked me on Twitter,
but then I treat my Facebook profile basically as public.
So I post stuff on there. It's the same, whether you're friends with me or not.
And I had posted something totally innocuous about,
I was at a restaurant or drinking an espresso on it.
I don't even know what it was.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> she showed up there and commented that she had called
Boston college and told them I not to, you know,
not to hire me or to fire me or whatever.
On a post about you having an espresso. Well.
It was just a personal, personal post. Right.
But the point is she determined that the exchange was worthy of blocking me on
Twitter.
But then she came to my personal Facebook page and said,
I'm calling Boston college and telling them to fire you.
There's a word for that. <laugh>
God it's. So there might be a few there's a, a gang, but there's a big one.
Yeah. There's a four letter one.
<laugh> I just don't understand why someone would want to do that to someone.
Why, why can't you disagree? Why can't you?
And she's just upset that you pointed out a glaring problem with what she was
saying.
Yeah, I apparently, and you know, the thing is I don't, I, the,
the way I operate, I don't think even necessarily that she's a bad person. I,
I just assume that she has, you know, some emotional thing going on.
She could have had its terrible day.
As far as I know someone near and dear to her died that day. I.
Am. If someone near and dear to me died, I wouldn't go to you wouldn't.
Necessarily be on Twitter.
I wouldn't your Facebook or FOAs about you drinking an espresso. Fair, fair.
Tell people I try to get you fired. But my.
Approach is I just, I really do assume most people are pretty good people.
And even when we have disagreements,
mm-hmm <affirmative> I tend to give the benefit of the doubt that if we could
only talk the way we're doing, yes, we could figure out 95% of the disagreement.
I agree with you. Maybe not all of it. Right. Agree. But most of it,
so I don't begrudge her. I mean, yeah, I don't, I,
she behaved in a way I wouldn't behave, but who knows what she had going on?
You know? I, I mean it's.
Yeah. Well, it didn't get you fired. So it's not the, that bad,
but if it did that, would've been.
Horrible. It would've been a different situation. Yeah.
Would've been probably a good publicity.
Yeah. It probably would've helped you a little bit.
I think so you get excited about that. I like you.
Well's funny your eye, the reason I'm,
I'm thinking back actually to a conversation I had at the time where someone
said to me, uh, if you do get fired, it's the best possible thing.
That'll right. It, it would just be fantastic.
And it didn't cause I wasn't actually employed there at the time. That's the,
the irony.
Of it. Well, this is the thing, the, the falling in line, the,
the no room for deviation from the ideology. Sure. This is a,
this is a giant issue that I have with both,
both parties it's and I think it's one of the reasons why people were in these
parties to begin with. I,
I don't necessarily think that people have clearly thought out every single
aspect of whatever party they align with.
I think they fall in line and they adopt predetermined pattern or behavior that
seems to be attractive at the time.
And then they fall in line with whatever that party is saying. Yeah.
I think that is a giant percentage of people. When someone Devi from that,
like you did someone who is also clearly a progressive and clearly a left wing
person and you're criticizing something and very, very politely.
And that, that she just goes haywire over that.